---
-api-id: M:Windows.ApplicationModel.Store.Preview.StorePreview.RequestProductPurchaseByProductIdAndSkuIdAsync(System.String,System.String)
-api-type: winrt method
---

<!-- Method syntax
public Windows.Foundation.IAsyncOperation<Windows.ApplicationModel.Store.Preview.StorePreviewPurchaseResults> RequestProductPurchaseByProductIdAndSkuIdAsync(System.String productId, System.String skuId)
-->

# Windows.ApplicationModel.Store.Preview.StorePreview.RequestProductPurchaseByProductIdAndSkuIdAsync

## -description
Requests the purchase of a SKU for an in-app product that is associated with the current app. Calling this method displays the UI that is used to complete the transaction via the Windows Store.

## -parameters
### -param productId
Specifies the ID of the in-app product. This corresponds to the [StorePreviewProductInfo.ProductId](storepreviewproductinfo_productid.md) value and the [StorePreviewSkuInfo.ProductId](storepreviewskuinfo_productid.md) values for all SKUs of the in-app product.

### -param skuId
Specifies the ID of the SKU for the in-app product. This corresponds to the [StorePreviewSkuInfo.SkuId](storepreviewskuinfo_skuid.md) value.

## -returns
An asynchronous operation that, on successful completion, returns a [StorePreviewPurchaseResults](storepreviewpurchaseresults.md) that contains the results of the in-app product purchase request.

## -remarks
The [StorePreviewSkuInfo.ProductId](storepreviewskuinfo_productid.md) and [StorePreviewProductInfo.ProductId](storepreviewproductinfo_productid.md) values are not the same as the [Windows.ApplicationModel.Store.ProductListing.ProductId](../windows.applicationmodel.store/productlisting_productid.md) value. [Windows.ApplicationModel.Store.ProductListing.ProductId](../windows.applicationmodel.store/productlisting_productid.md) is specified by the developer as they create an in-app product on the Dev Center dashboard. The [StorePreviewSkuInfo.ProductId](storepreviewskuinfo_productid.md) and [StorePreviewProductInfo.ProductId](storepreviewproductinfo_productid.md) values are generated by Microsoft.

## -examples

## -see-also
[StorePreviewPurchaseResults](storepreviewpurchaseresults.md)

## -capabilities
previewStore